# Iot-based-wheelchair-mounted-fall-detection-and-health-monitoring-system

Around the world we see many people who are physically challenged. One among them are those who use wheel chairs. In present situation a person on a wheel should have a care taker who always looks after the person on the wheel chair. It is really difficult for the caretaker to keep an eye on the patient all the time. If in case when the patient is resting and there is no one with him/her, suddenly an incident happens it will lead to risk of life of patient. This is major drawback of the wheel chairs that are in use currently.
In order to overcome this problem, we have brought in a new concept and developed a smart wheel chair which monitors patient’s bloop pressure, oxygen level and etc. This will drastically help the caretaker to have a regular check of patient’s health. We also use cloud services to send the information about the patient to the caretaker.
This prototype model is using NODEMCU esp8266 and depicting the use cloud service in this model so that the admin can view the activity of the parking system and providing some controls to the admin so that he can have control over the gate and security cameras and other electronic components. To control all these, we need internet as medium to be connected. But in case if internet goes down it would be difficult to control devices and view activity of the system so if we would integrate Bluetooth or other electronic components which would be in helpful in controlling the devices in need should be implemented. 
